In this video, we'll talk about explain function that is empower and so raising and for and times that
is multiplying M for and times.
So for this problem, we will try to define the recursive function for that.
First of all, I will explain what the problem is.
She suppose I have to find out.
Booba five, so this means two into two multiplied by two, and this is multiplied by itself four or
five times, so it means embar and means and should be multiplied for.
And The Times four and The Times.
And should be multiplied four times now, this, if I write it as a power function that is par, I'm
gonna end.
Then it means I'm into, I'm into and that goes on to end the minus one times in two, one more time.
This will continue for and minus one times and one more time, for example, 2.5.
So this is four times.
This is four times and one more time.
So Simbi mPower and memes should be multiplied four and minus one times then again multiplied by one
more time.
So it becomes total end times.
Now this I can define it recursively.
I can say part of M m is part of Ankomah and minus one times into M.
So yes, this can be defined as a recurrence relation.
Part of Ankomah and minus one in two and then and as greater than zero one and has become zero, then
one is equal to zero as it is a product.
So it should have done one.
So minimum value is one.
So that's it.
So for this mathematical definition, I can write a recursive function using C or C++.
So let me write a function here.
Integer bar in M come on in and.
If and is equal to zero of it on one otherwise Ripton, part of Ankomah and minus one.
So that's all it is, just a two three line functions, so simple function.
So this is converted into a recursive function.
I would take one example and show you how it works.
Let us stress this one for part of two leads to two nine.
So two days to nine, embeddedness two and introduce nine.
So nine, that is not equal to zero.
So it should perform this operation that is part of.
Bukola is one that is nine minus one that is eight, so I will rewrite it as eight multiplied by M..
So what is and this is true.
So let's continue now.
This call has to be finished and only multiplication will be done.
So what the scholars bugger off two comma as this is eight.
It is not zeros.
Every time this has to be done.
So this will become seven multiplied by two.
Then again, part of two comma six multiplied by two and part of two comma five multiplied by two.
Bottles to come out for multiplied by two.
Unfinished business, so that's all I have made all the calls and the last call is to come on zero zero
when necessary, three times one.
So this will be one.
Multiplied by two thousand two hundred here and multiplied by two again, it is too square to square
returns here, so this is multiplied by two, so this becomes two cube and so on.
So I don't have to work out on this one.
So you can see that one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine.
So nine times two is multiplied.
So the result is two point nine so far value and as nine it has made a total ten columns, nine two
zero Lincoln.
So unless one counts.
So now you know how much time it is taking and how much memory space it is consuming, as there are
nine plus one calls for it and plus one and is out of times.
Out of often.
And what is the size of the stack that is also out of ten.
Because the number of activation records created inside the stack are dependent on the number of calls.
That is, unless one counts, not one more thing we should analyze here.
We should observe here total how many multiplications is performing.
So one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine.
Sertraline multiplications outperform.
So is it possible to compute this one with less number of multiplications?
Let us check.
Is it possible to do that?
See here if suppose it is dupa eight so two eight can be done, has to power to and perform.
So this is to enter.
To perform.
So it means if I perform one multiplication on the same value, then power will reduce by half over
the learning by half.
And suppose it is to perform nine point nine then this can return as to into.
To square perform.
So because it is, ah, we can't directly make it half so first one, to have taken it out and decide
it has to power it again so I can make it tough so that the power is even then I can directly have it
out.
So if the power is even no.
Then I can directly take half of the power.
And if the numbers are done I can take one multiplication extra and then I can take half of the power.
So if I multiply the number directly, then the power is getting reduced by half.
So with this observation, we can write a power function faster than this one.
So let us rewrite that power function here.
I will write on power function integer.
I'll give the same name power lured from New Numeration.
And I am.
First of all, if N is equal to zero, then return one next check.
If it is even if one is more than two, if it is equal to zero if and the maldito is equal to zero means
number is even if power is even then I can reduce the power by dividing it by two.
So let us write that code here.
So if it is even number then ripton called power function and multiply M into M, so one multiplication
that is Emin's multiplied by itself for one time, then this will be invited to next group.
So the number of multiplication will reduce further than Ellesmere's number is not even power is not
even poverties ared if power is already one multiplication extra.
So I will write on ripton mental power off into M. comma and minus one divided by two.
If it is our number then one multiplication we are taking here directly and then and then minus one
by two.
So in minus one it will become even numbered and divided by two.
So let us take an example and trace this function and seeing how many multiplication we can get done.
So so I take the same example that is part of Boogerman nine.
So we are looking at this function there, a new version of a function which is having less number of
multiplications.
So let us try this power of Bookham.
One name, this is two and this is nine.
So edness zero.
No, and it's not zero.
So N is even.
No, it is not even so.
It is odd.
So the letter here so m and also and so I will write on those things directly here to in the power of.
Two into to do so, I'll try to square citizens and to em, so two square comma and the minus one by
two, so that is nine minus one by two, nine minus one by two.
That is eight by two.
So it will be four.
So I really like it at for.
So to square, that is for coming forward.
So this is the call, not again, a call is made this time.
This is for that is two squares, two square and this is four so far.
It is not zero for evil.
No evil.
No, just there is a call that multiplying into and end by two.
So let us take our next call.
That is part of.
I mean, m m is now to square, so it becomes too square into two square and this should be bitou for
four by two, four by two, that's what we have to do.
So you can see this line.
So this I will rewrite.
So to square and square, this becomes two part four and four by two.
So this becomes two.
The new call again.
Then let us continue to pause for and this has to do is not zero and two is even so it will enter into
the spot.
So next column that is aiming to end the power of Super four into two powerful comma and the two.
So this is too divided by two.
So I will write this one.
So this becomes topower eight.
And this becomes two by two as one.
Now, this discon, this is to our aid, and this is one this time, and it's not zero but even and
this time and is not zero and and it's not even number.
It is one third and I think arge or Depok.
So in that I'm in the power of so-and-so.
So Emmas, how much to eight into power of Emmental.
And that is to put it into Dupere that is topower 16 Gunma and the minus one by two one minus one by
zero.
So that's the last call now enhanced became zero.
So four zero it becomes one.
So this four zero value the return result, this one, this is one known what it will become.
Dupo read in Q1 to pour aid into one.
So this is to support aid and support aid goes here.
So this becomes what each and every year this becomes Tobor aid.
There is nothing, no multiplication.
Is there just a return and to power it goes here.
So this is going to be borate to into.
So this is 2009 and 2009 online here.
So whenever the call was for our number, there is one multiplication even then, but there is no multiplication
simply it returns the value.
So finally we got Don.
So that is Drupa nine and total how many multiplications we perform one multiplication.
And here we have taken square this this was 202, actually.
So one, two, then three, four and five here.
So one multiplication six.
So just in six multiplication, we got to power nine in the previous version for this one, it has taken
through the line multiplication for getting done.
So when the power was nine, but No.
Four over nine, this has worked faster and we got the result than just a six multiplications.
So that's all about this power function, so we have a faster version of Exponent, and that is power
function, also the same function can also be done using iteration that is using loop.
So that's, again, a student exercise.
So you have to do it.
So we will continue looking at more example of recursions, incoming videos.